-   How is computational thinking used in game development?

Notes:

A video Card usess low level gates in conjuction with the central processing unit

A chip is an abstraction made up of low level components that performs a specific function a collection of: transistors, switches that can either store zero or one. But they are layered and connected in a way that creates higher level abstractions(transistors).

Analog data has values that changes smoothly

All number bases including binary and decimal are used to represent data, each digit of binary sequences is called a bit.

How the binary sequences are used determies how they're interpreted

Abstraction

Computational Thinking

1.  Determine the actual problem you are trying to solve. (It may not always be what you think.)
2.  Organize and analyze the data you have to work with.
3.  Break down the problem into smaller parts (and revise your definition of "The Problem" if necessary).
4.  Determine whether steps are repeated and what is necessary to solve each step (iteration and logical operations), and identify the best way of displaying the data to the user (symbolic representation and abstraction).
5.  Take those steps and reorder them into a logic ordered process (algorithmic thinking)
6.  Build the process into a working model and test it to find flaws. 
7.  Repeat as necessary.

100000000000

31,536,000 

Types of computing

Sequential computing runs a program from beginning to end.

Parallel computing breaks the program into multiple smaller sequential computing operations

Distributed computing uses multiple devices to run a program. 

The behavior of a program is how the program functions during execution and is often described by how a user interacts with it.

An event is associated with an action and supplies input data to a program.

algorithms must be described with accurate and precise language. 

Algorithms are built of conditional statements: