Main:

A short story is an invented prose narrative shorter than a novel, usually dealing with a few characters, aiming at unity of effect and often concentrating on the creation of mood rather than plot. 

-   fictional
-   written in prose, which is distinguished from poetry especially by its greater irregularity and variety of rhythm and its closer correspondence to the patterns of everyday speech
-   incorporating a limited number of characters
-   emphasizing mood
-   creating unity of effect

Questions:

-   How does Poe rank the poem, the novel, and the short story in artistry? What is his reasoning behind this ranking?

Poe

-   What does Poe mean by “unity of effect?”

impression

-   How does Poe assess literary merit in the short story?
-   How can the plot of a short story help to create the unity of effect that Poe describes in his review of Hawthorne's work?

Build a strong and thorough impression of the plot

1.  Direct characterization is the artistic representation of human character or motives as explicitly expressed in narration of a text. Direct characterization includes explicit statements in the text and its narration.
2.  Indirect characterization is the artistic representation of human character or motives as expressed through the character’s words or actions or by the responses of other characters.

-   How does Chopin represent the characters of Désirée, Armand, or Désirée’s mother? Choose one character and select 3–4 short quotations from the passage; identify each quote as direct or indirect characterization and explain what you learn about the character from the quoted passage.

"direct characterization":

-    "That was as much as she could do or say" (expressing limitations of the character via direct characterization)

"indirect characterization":

-   "I knew you would be astonished," (shows the characters attachment to the baby)