Main:

The Path To The Creation of the constitution

The Creation of the U.S. Constitution

Delegates agreed on four concepts

-   human nature: People were fundamentally self-interested, and the government’s purpose was to hinder these selfish tendencies.
-   political conflict: Political factions gaining power could result in the tyranny of the majority and a dysfunctional government.
-   purpose of government: Government should provide protections for private property, including one’s person as well as wealth.
-   nature of government: A balanced government is one in which each governmental branch checked and balanced the power of the other branches.

 features of the Articles of Confederation

-   Each state retained its sovereignty it was an alliance between 13 independent nations and the government was weaker, so it was "limited government"

Key weaknesses of the articles

-   Weak union between states
-   Balance of power
-   Approached limited government
-   Their central government was small
-   No money to create a military
-   Government couldn't tax

-   Between the federal and state governments

Goals of constitutional convention

-   Solving economic issues (small farmers were unable to pay their debts)
-   Stronger military
-   Non-monarchal government
-   Structure
-   Attempt to find purpose of government
-   Political conflict
-   Elitism
-   hyperpluralism

Shays Rebellion (farmers attacked courthouses to prevent foreclosures and free prisoners)

Preamble Purpose Clauses

-   “in Order to form a more perfect Union”: The Constitution will be an improvement upon the Articles of Confederation. This establishes a union of states, as opposed to a confederacy, with a stronger central government.
-   “establish Justice”: The established legal system will be fair and just for all.
-   “insure domestic Tranquility”: The government will keep the peace in the country so disturbances such as uprisings do not occur or are easily addressed.
-   “provide for the common defence”: The government will maintain a national military and defend the nation against attacks from foreign aggressors.
-   “promote the general Welfare”: The government will support the well-being of the nation’s citizens by, among other means, the laws passed by the national Congress.
-   “and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity”: The liberties that exist at the outset of the government’s creation will continue to exist into the future.

Representative Democracy

-   participatory democracy: A wide participation in politics and civil society characterizes this system of government, sometimes known as hyperpluralism. A modern example is the Occupy protest movements of the early 2010s, which used this form of governance to make decisions in small groups in which every participant contributed.
-   pluralist democracy: Interest groups and activism create policy change within governments in this system. Lobby groups in contemporary politics function as one branch of a pluralist democracy.
-   elite democracy: The governance of the elite, who act as representatives of the citizens of a society, characterizes this system. Today, special interest groups with wealthy financial backers exerting influence in politics (through PACs, for instance) are an example of an elite democracy.

Questions:

What do you think the United States government would be like today if the AoF wasn't replaced by the constitution?

-   Then popular sov  wouldn't implemented most likely

-   Based on the language of Articles II and III, do you think that the Articles intended to create a “strong” or “weak” union among the states? Why?

-   It was intended to create a strong union (article III) "binding themselves to assist each other," "severally enter into a firm league of friendship with eachother"

The union was meant to be a weak one, but stronger than if there were no sort of agreement. Articles II and III gave states the power to regulate their own territory, but the institutions that linked them together were relatively weak. While the “league” created was given the power of “common defence” (forming an army and a navy), it was not given a means to fund them. The national government could neither tax the citizens of the states nor print currency, which was left to individual state sovereignty, thus creating a weak alliance among all the states.

-   What were the purposes of the Articles of Confederation?

-   Running away from monarchy

-   What two main benefits did the Articles of Confederation provide?

-   States did not tax each other and the government did not tax
-   Freedom to travel across state lines

-   How do the Articles of Confederation reflect the Founders’ beliefs about limited government?

Giving the government power when necessary

-   What words, phrases, or sentences in the Articles reflect these beliefs?

No state shall engage in any war without the consent of the United States in congress assembled

Possible response:

“each state retains its sovereignty, freedom and independence, and every Power, Jurisdiction and right” —States were to remain independent and the power over administering their own territories was not to be given over to any federal power.

“league of friendship” —The idea of a league as opposed to a single country was especially important to the Articles.

“the security of their Liberties” —Each state was to look after its own interests and secure its own rights, as opposed to giving up some of those liberties to a strong federal government.

“mutual and general welfare” —Each state was treated equally in this agreement, both in its rights and representation in the federal congress.

-   Based on Figure 2.2, which groups gained power after the end of the Revolutionary War?

-   Moderate Income
-   Farmers

-   What does Washington mean by “it is as well to be without [the powers of government], as not to live under their exercise”?

To live under their rules

Possible response: To have a government that does not respond to crises immediately and effectively is essentially to have no government at all.

-   What does he think the proper role of government is in this situation?

He thinks the proper role of the government is that if the government doesn't do anything the rebellions will spiral out of control

Possible response: To respond to periods of crisis (economic, violent, or otherwise) quickly and effectively. The government in this case should address the citizens’ complaints and demands, or at least listen to their grievances.

-   Why is Washington worried about the “eyes of all Europe”?

Due to them being puppets of europe at the time

Possible response: Because the United States was a relatively new government and was in the process of fighting a violent war in order to secure independence from one such European power. If it could not effectively govern itself, the Revolution would have no purpose.

-   Why would this influence how he thinks about the U.S. government?

 to believe in a more limited government

Possible response: From its conception, the U.S. government was set in opposition to these European powers and how they operated. The U.S. system of government was new and radical and it had to live up to those expectations in order to succeed.

>