Information:

Questions:

-   What aspects of the text resonated with/engaged/interested you?

-   I like how the poem transitioned from abstract to concrete

"I say drop a mouse into a poem (abstract).(Concrete) and watch him probe his way out."

-   What aspects of the text confused or pulled you out of the reading?

How the text was talking about torturing an inanimate noun

-   Will this change the way you read poetry? Explain why or why not.

This excerpt will indeed change the way I read poetry,

-   Consider how poetry compares to other forms of literature such as novels, plays, and nonfiction essays. How do these kinds of expression compare in form, content, and purpose?

Poetry is much different than other forms of literature because it's very abstract compared to them. Its content is shorter but more fulfilling its purpose is not as clear but its shorter so it

5-7 texts that you believe to be canonical

-   Are there any common themes among the texts in your list?
-   Next, consider the forms of literature. Are some forms more likely than others to be considered “great”? Conversely, are there subjects, themes, or forms that cannot be part of great literature?

Prose-

Is a literary text with unstructured literary text that expresses emotions by relaying things how it is

Drama-

Drama is a prose that relays emotion through the relations between people or inanimate objects.

Poetry-

Poetry uses abstract literary phrases and senses in order to relay a emotional respons

-   How would you describe the tone of the poem? Provide specific textual evidence to support your description.

Nostalgic "I remember the first time I conciously saw her"

-   How would you describe the style of the poem? Provide specific textual evidence to support your description.
-   Free verse "I remember the first time I consciously saw her" it doesn't sound like an average poem he's just speaking her thoughts
-   How would you describe the voice represented in the poem? Provide specific textual evidence to support your description.

The voice represented in the poem is a girl who is reflecting on her past life with her mother

"mommy always sat in the dark

i don’t know how i knew that but she did"

>

-   What are some universal characteristics of canonized literature?