Main:

-   flat character: a character with a single defining characteristic
-   round character: a complex and well-developed character
-   static character: a character who does not change significantly in the course of a narrative
-   dynamic character: a character who changes significantly in the course of a narrative

1.  verbal irony: incongruity between the literal meaning of what is said and the intended meaning, often taking the form of sarcasm or understatement
2.  situational irony: incongruity between the actual result of a sequence of events and the normal or expected result
3.  dramatic irony: incongruity between a situation developed in a drama [or other narrative] and the accompanying words or actions that is understood by the audience but not by the characters

Questions:

-   How is characterization related to assessments of a text’s literary merit?

It makes behaviors and attitudes of imaginary persons credible to the audience.

-   Why are static characters more common in short stories than in novels?

Static characters are more common in short stories than novels because short stories are prose which doesn't work towards the expanson towards some characters

-   Categorize each of the major characters in “Désirée’s Baby” (Armand, Désirée, and Mme Valmondé) as round or flat and as static or dynamic. Write two sentences for each character stating the determination of type and providing a textual detail that supports your answer.
-   Valmonde dynamic
-   Desirees baby static
-   Desiree static

-   How is characterization related to assessments of a text’s literary merit?  
    Possible response: Effective characterization is one of the criteria used to assess literary merit.
-   Why are static characters more common in short stories than in novels?  
    Possible response: Short stories are less lengthy than novels and their action is often contained in a briefer period of time.
-   Categorize each of the major characters in “Désirée’s Baby” (Armand, Désirée, and Mme Valmondé) as round or flat and as static or dynamic. Write two sentences for each character stating the determination of type and providing a textual detail that supports your answer.  
    Possible response: Armand is a round character, described as impulsive, proud, and assertive. He is a dynamic character, changing within the action of the story from angry and violent to the happy new husband and then to the angry, embittered man who rejects his wife and child. Désirée is a round character, described as “beautiful, gentle, affectionate, and sincere,” and her love and admiration for Armand are apparent. She is a dynamic character, changing within the action of the story from the joyful, if tired, new mother to the despairing, rejected wife who wanders into the wilderness with her infant. Mme Valmondé is a flat character: unconditional maternal love is her defining trait. She is a static character: her love of Désirée and the baby is pure and unwavering.

-   Which forms of irony are present in the story? Identify one example of each type of irony that you find in the story.

Dramatic irony

"This is not the baby!" she exclaimed, in startled tones."

-   Which example of irony is most important to the story, and why?