Main:

Conventions of Drama

-   dramatis personae: the characters or actors in a drama
-   stage directions: a description (as of a character or setting) or direction (as to indicate stage business) provided in the text of a play
-   dialogue: the conversational element of literary or dramatic composition
-   staging: the act of putting on a play, which generally includes sets, costumes, lighting, and sound effects

 setting, the time and place of the action of a literary, dramatic, or cinematic work.

 The at rise description precedes the opening lines of dialogue and explains what the audience should see as the curtain rises.

SCENE: The cloth is rising, the sun is seeping through. The birds are flying and the animals are going back to their zoo. The kids wake up and the birds chirp too, the household gets brighter as the smiles on everyone faces begins to shine. Everyone's beds are getting put together, while the people outside begin their morning walks.

Questions:

-   How do readers categorize literature?
-   How does the act of writing increase one’s understanding of literature?
-   What action occurs onstage before any dialogue is spoken? The setup of the scene
-   At what point do you begin to understand why the characters are gathered in this place? At the end
-   What action or line of dialogue made this situation evident to you?
-   "Well, can you beat the women! Held for murder and worryin' about her preserves
-   What aspects of the text did you find interesting?

The way the goal of this meeting was not shown until the end

-   What questions do you have about what you read?

-   What do you already know about Mr. and Mrs. Wright as you begin this section?

 Mrs.Wright and Mr.Wright are neighbors with mrs.hale

-   What do you learn about them as you read?

They tried slipping a rope under jone ropes neck,

-   Who is the source of most of the information? Is that person a reliable source?
-   How do the stage directions shape your understanding of the text?