	Nostalgia is great for writing because it touches the readers hearts. This feeling comes closest to writers which is why they express it as much as possible. Two stories "To His Coy Mistress" by Andrew Marvell and "Dover Beach" by Matthew Arnold express nostalgia: this is done by using particular shifts and figurative language which empowers the relative poems. "Dover beach" and "To his coy mistress," uses nostalgia to reflect on what is missing from their life and what they appreciated about their life. These poems also used personification to objectify the past. Finally these authors used shifts to express changes in emotion from stanza to stanza.

	The attitude nostalgia is present throughout both "Dover beach" and "To his coy mistress"

	Personification is a very important part of these excerpts because it relates inanimate objects to human subtleties. An example of this in "Dover Beach" is "Sea is calm tonight" as well as "ashes all my lust" from "To his coy mistress:" These quotes exert the narrators appreciation for inanimate objects that touch their hearts in their day to day lives. These quotes also develop the audiences appreciate by touching their hearts with emotional rhetoric, which defeats the herculean tasks writers have to go through in order to touch these remote hearts. Others may argue that, these personfications were attempts by the narrators to express nostalgia, not appreciation but i'd argue you're wrong. In fact, they use both nostalgia and appreciation: appreciation of the past. With this we arrive at the conclusion that Personfication was a vital part of the objectifying the past to the reader. 

	
